docs/usage.md, before:

<picture>
  <source media="(prefers-color-scheme: dark)" srcset="../assets/01_Logo/Cover_White.png">
  <source media="(prefers-color-scheme: light)" srcset="../assets/01_Logo/Cover_Black.png">
  <img src="../assets/01_Logo/Cover_White.png" alt="Logo of OnTheSpot" width="350">
</picture>

<br>

# Getting Started

When launching the application for the first time you will receive a warning that no Spotify accounts are added.

1. **Dismiss the Warning**
   - Click the close button on the warning dialog.

2. **Add Your Spotify Account(s)**
   - Navigate to the **Configuration** tab.
   - Scroll to the bottom and add your Spotify account(s).

> [!TIP]
> Adding multiple accounts allows you to download multiple songs simultaneously, speeding up the download process.

[WIP: Youtube Video Explaining the Usage]

## 2. Searching and Downloading Music

### Search by Query

1. **Navigate to the Search Tab**
   - Click on the **Search** tab within the application.

2. **Enter Your Search Terms**
   - Type the name of a song, artist, album, or playlist into the search bar.

3. **Execute the Search**
   - Click the **Search** button to retrieve results.

4. **Download Music**
   - **Single Download**: Click the **Download** button next to the desired item.
   - **Bulk Download**: Use the buttons below the results table to download multiple items at once.

> [!NOTE]
> Downloading large media types like albums or playlists may take longer. The application might appear unresponsive during this process. Please be patient.

### Download by URL

1. **Enter the URL**
   - Paste the Spotify URL of a song, album, artist, or playlist into the search field.

2. **Start the Download**
   - Click the **Download** button to begin downloading.

3. **Bulk URL Downloads**
   - You can also provide a path to a text file containing multiple URLs. OnTheSpot will queue all listed URLs for downloading.

> [!IMPORTANT]
> Ensure each URL in the text file is on a separate line to avoid errors during the download process.

> [!NOTE]
> Similar to bulk downloads via query, downloading media types other than 'Tracks' may take longer and cause the app to appear frozen temporarily.

## 4. Configuration

Customize **OnTheSpot** to fit your preferences by adjusting the settings in the Configuration tab.

### General Configuration Options

<details open>
  <summary><b>Open Options Table</b></summary>

  | **Option** | **Description** |
  | ------ | ------ |
  | **Active Account Number** | Specifies which account from the list will be used for api calls and downloads. |
  | **Max Download Workers** | Number of simultaneous download threads. Requires application restart to take effect. |
  | **Download Path** | Root folder where all downloaded media will be saved. |
  | **Download Delay** | Time (in seconds) to wait before initiating the next download. Helps prevent Spotify's rate limits. |
  | **Max Retries** | Number of retry attempts for a failed download before skipping to the next item. |
  | **Max Search Results** | Limits the number of search results displayed for each media type (e.g., songs, albums). |
  | **Raw Media Download** | Downloads the raw ogg file from Spotify. With this enabled file conversion and the embedding of metadata and cover art is skipped. |
  | **Mirror Playback** | Download currently playing song on the active Spotify account. |
  | **Advanced Settings** | Enables advanced settings. |
  | **Theme** | Choose the application theme (`light` or `dark`). |

</details>

> [!IMPORTANT]
> After making changes to the configuration, always click the **Save Settings** button to ensure your preferences are applied.

## 5. Advanced Configuration

For users who want more control over how their music is organized and downloaded.

> [!CAUTION]
> Changing some advanced settings may affect the organization and quality of your downloaded music. Proceed with adjustments only if you are familiar with the options.

### Additional Advanced Options

   <details open>
   <summary><b>Open Advanced Options</b></summary>

| **Option** | **Description** |
| ------ | ------ |
| **Download Buttons** | Adds extra functionalities like copying song links, opening tracks in your local music player, and locating the download directory. |
| **Show Thumbnails In Search**| Display thumbnails next to search results. |
| **Thumbnail Search Size**| Quality of thumbnails in search, it is unlikely you will notice a difference. |
| **Disable Bulk Download Notices** | Disables pop-up messages while downloading multiple songs or episodes. |
| **Explicit Label** | Customize how explicit content is labeled in file names and the app (default: 🅴). |
| **Check for Updates** | Automatically check for application updates. |
| **Track/Episode Format** | Select the audio format for your downloaded music or podcasts (e.g. `mp3`, `flac`, `ogg`, `m4a`). |
| [**Track/Episode Path**](#trackplaylist-path-format) | Customize the file naming pattern for tracks, episodes, and playlists using variables like `{artist}`, `{album}`, etc. |
| **Use Custom Playlist Path** | Enable the use of a custom path format for playlists. |
| [**Playlist Path**](#trackplaylist-path-format) | Customize the file naming pattern for playlists using variables like `{artist}`, `{album}`, etc. |
| **Create M3U Files for Playlists** | If enabled create an M3U file for downloaded tracks in a playlist. |
| [**M3U Path**](#trackplaylist-path-format) | Customize the download path of created M3U files using variables like `{artist}`, `{album}`, etc. |
| **Save Album Cover** | Save album cover as an image with a default format of cover.png |
| **Album Cover Format** | The image format to save album covers in (default: png) |
| **Illegal Character Replacement** | Replace illegal characters in the filepath with the value specified (e.g., `/`, `\`, `<`, `>`, `*`, etc.). |
| **Download Lyrics from Spotify\*** | Enable downloading of lyrics for each track/episode. *This feature requires a premium account.* |
| **Download Synced Lyrics Only\*** | Only download synced lyrics for tracks. *This feature requires a premium account.*|
| **Save LRC File\*** | Save lyrics in an `.lrc` file alongside the track. *This feature requires a premium account.* |
| **Force Premium** | Only download tracks in 'Very High' quality, this feature may break downloads for tracks that do not support 320kbps. *This feature requires a premium account.* |
| **Rotate Active Account** | Automatically rotate between added accounts for downloading to minimize the chance of hitting rate limits. This feature breaks the functionality of 'Active Account Number'. |
| **Recoverable Downloads Retry Delay**| Sets the wait time before retrying a failed download attempt (default: `10 seconds`). |
| **Skip Bytes at End** | Sets the number of bytes to skip at the end of a download when encountering 'PD Errors' to avoid incomplete tracks. |
| **Translate File Path** | Translate file paths into the application language. |
| **Metadata Separator** | Set the separator for metadata fields with multiple values (default: `; `). |
| **Embed Metadata Tags** | Select which metadata tags to embed in downloaded files (e.g., `artist`, `album`, `year`, `lyrics`, etc.). |

   </details>


### Track/Playlist Path Format

- **Customize File Names**
  - Define how downloaded tracks are named using variables enclosed in `{}`.

- **Available Variables**

   <details open>
   <summary><b>Open Variables Table</b></summary>

   | **Variable**      | **Description**                                     |
   | ----------------- | --------------------------------------------------- |
   | `{artist}`        | Name of the artist(s).                              |
   | `{album}`         | Name of the album.                                  |
   | `{name}`          | Name of the track.                                  |
   | `{rel_year}`      | Release year of the track.                          |
   | `{track_number}`  | Track number on the album.                          |
   | `{disc_number}`   | Disc number (if applicable).                        |
   | `{playlist_name}` | Name of the playlist (if part of a playlist).       |
   | `{genre}`         | Genre of the song.                                  |
   | `{label}`         | Name of the record label.                           |
   | `{explicit}`      | Displays 'Explicit Label' if the song is marked explicit (default: 🅴). |
   | `{spotid}`        | Spotify ID of the track.                            |

   </details>

> [!TIP]
> **Example:**  
> Setting the format to `{artist} - {name}.mp3` will result in files named like `Artist Name - Song Title.mp3`.

### Podcast Path Format

- **Organize by Folders**
  - Define how podcasts are organized into directories using variables.

- **Available Variables**

   <details open>
   <summary><b>Open Variables Table</b></summary>

  | **Variable**      | **Description**                               |
  | ----------------- | --------------------------------------------- |
  | `{artist}`        | Name of the artist(s).                        |
  | `{podcast_name}`  | Name of the Podcast.                          |
  | `{episode_name}`  | Episode name.                                 |
  | `{release_date}`  | Episode release date.                         |
  | `{total_episodes}`| Total number of episodes in podcast.          |
  | `{language}`      | Podcast language.                             |

   </details>

> [!TIP]
> **Example:**  
> Setting the directory format to `{artist}/{podcast_name}/{episode})` will create folders like `Artist Name/Podcast Name/Episode Name.mp3`.


## 6. Saving Your Configuration

- **Apply Changes**
  - After adjusting any settings, click the **Save Settings** button on the right to apply your changes.

> [!IMPORTANT]
> Some configuration changes may require restarting **OnTheSpot** to take effect. Make sure to restart the application if prompted.

Commit message:

Add feature: document search from text file

docs/usage.md, after:

<picture>
  <source media="(prefers-color-scheme: dark)" srcset="../assets/01_Logo/Cover_White.png">
  <source media="(prefers-color-scheme: light)" srcset="../assets/01_Logo/Cover_Black.png">
  <img src="../assets/01_Logo/Cover_White.png" alt="Logo of OnTheSpot" width="350">
</picture>

<br>

# Getting Started

When launching the application for the first time you will receive a warning that no Spotify accounts are added.

1. **Dismiss the Warning**
   - Click the close button on the warning dialog.

2. **Add Your Spotify Account(s)**
   - Navigate to the **Configuration** tab.
   - Scroll to the bottom and add your Spotify account(s).

> [!TIP]
> Adding multiple accounts allows you to download multiple songs simultaneously, speeding up the download process.

[WIP: Youtube Video Explaining the Usage]

## 2. Searching and Downloading Music

### Search by Query

1. **Navigate to the Search Tab**
   - Click on the **Search** tab within the application.

2. **Enter Your Search Terms**
   - Type the name of a song, artist, album, or playlist into the search bar.

3. **Execute the Search**
   - Click the **Search** button to retrieve results.

4. **Download Music**
   - **Single Download**: Click the **Download** button next to the desired item.
   - **Bulk Download**: Use the buttons below the results table to download multiple items at once.

> [!NOTE]
> Downloading large media types like albums or playlists may take longer. The application might appear unresponsive during this process. Please be patient.

> [!TIP]
> You can also specify the path to a text file containing the links you want to download.

### Download by URL

1. **Enter the URL**
   - Paste the Spotify URL of a song, album, artist, or playlist into the search field.

2. **Start the Download**
   - Click the **Download** button to begin downloading.

3. **Bulk URL Downloads**
   - You can also provide a path to a text file containing multiple URLs. OnTheSpot will queue all listed URLs for downloading.

> [!IMPORTANT]
> Ensure each URL in the text file is on a separate line to avoid errors during the download process.

> [!NOTE]
> Similar to bulk downloads via query, downloading media types other than 'Tracks' may take longer and cause the app to appear frozen temporarily.

## 4. Configuration

Customize **OnTheSpot** to fit your preferences by adjusting the settings in the Configuration tab.

### General Configuration Options

<details open>
  <summary><b>Open Options Table</b></summary>

  | **Option** | **Description** |
  | ------ | ------ |
  | **Active Account Number** | Specifies which account from the list will be used for api calls and downloads. |
  | **Max Download Workers** | Number of simultaneous download threads. Requires application restart to take effect. |
  | **Download Path** | Root folder where all downloaded media will be saved. |
  | **Download Delay** | Time (in seconds) to wait before initiating the next download. Helps prevent Spotify's rate limits. |
  | **Max Retries** | Number of retry attempts for a failed download before skipping to the next item. |
  | **Max Search Results** | Limits the number of search results displayed for each media type (e.g., songs, albums). |
  | **Raw Media Download** | Downloads the raw ogg file from Spotify. With this enabled file conversion and the embedding of metadata and cover art is skipped. |
  | **Mirror Playback** | Download currently playing song on the active Spotify account. |
  | **Advanced Settings** | Enables advanced settings. |
  | **Theme** | Choose the application theme (`light` or `dark`). |

</details>

> [!IMPORTANT]
> After making changes to the configuration, always click the **Save Settings** button to ensure your preferences are applied.

## 5. Advanced Configuration

For users who want more control over how their music is organized and downloaded.

> [!CAUTION]
> Changing some advanced settings may affect the organization and quality of your downloaded music. Proceed with adjustments only if you are familiar with the options.

### Additional Advanced Options

   <details open>
   <summary><b>Open Advanced Options</b></summary>

| **Option** | **Description** |
| ------ | ------ |
| **Download Buttons** | Adds extra functionalities like copying song links, opening tracks in your local music player, and locating the download directory. |
| **Show Thumbnails In Search**| Display thumbnails next to search results. |
| **Thumbnail Search Size**| Quality of thumbnails in search, it is unlikely you will notice a difference. |
| **Disable Bulk Download Notices** | Disables pop-up messages while downloading multiple songs or episodes. |
| **Explicit Label** | Customize how explicit content is labeled in file names and the app (default: 🅴). |
| **Check for Updates** | Automatically check for application updates. |
| **Track/Episode Format** | Select the audio format for your downloaded music or podcasts (e.g. `mp3`, `flac`, `ogg`, `m4a`). |
| [**Track/Episode Path**](#trackplaylist-path-format) | Customize the file naming pattern for tracks, episodes, and playlists using variables like `{artist}`, `{album}`, etc. |
| **Use Custom Playlist Path** | Enable the use of a custom path format for playlists. |
| [**Playlist Path**](#trackplaylist-path-format) | Customize the file naming pattern for playlists using variables like `{artist}`, `{album}`, etc. |
| **Create M3U Files for Playlists** | If enabled create an M3U file for downloaded tracks in a playlist. |
| [**M3U Path**](#trackplaylist-path-format) | Customize the download path of created M3U files using variables like `{artist}`, `{album}`, etc. |
| **Save Album Cover** | Save album cover as an image with a default format of cover.png |
| **Album Cover Format** | The image format to save album covers in (default: png) |
| **Illegal Character Replacement** | Replace illegal characters in the filepath with the value specified (e.g., `/`, `\`, `<`, `>`, `*`, etc.). |
| **Download Lyrics from Spotify\*** | Enable downloading of lyrics for each track/episode. *This feature requires a premium account.* |
| **Download Synced Lyrics Only\*** | Only download synced lyrics for tracks. *This feature requires a premium account.*|
| **Save LRC File\*** | Save lyrics in an `.lrc` file alongside the track. *This feature requires a premium account.* |
| **Force Premium** | Only download tracks in 'Very High' quality, this feature may break downloads for tracks that do not support 320kbps. *This feature requires a premium account.* |
| **Rotate Active Account** | Automatically rotate between added accounts for downloading to minimize the chance of hitting rate limits. This feature breaks the functionality of 'Active Account Number'. |
| **Recoverable Downloads Retry Delay**| Sets the wait time before retrying a failed download attempt (default: `10 seconds`). |
| **Skip Bytes at End** | Sets the number of bytes to skip at the end of a download when encountering 'PD Errors' to avoid incomplete tracks. |
| **Translate File Path** | Translate file paths into the application language. |
| **Metadata Separator** | Set the separator for metadata fields with multiple values (default: `; `). |
| **Embed Metadata Tags** | Select which metadata tags to embed in downloaded files (e.g., `artist`, `album`, `year`, `lyrics`, etc.). |

   </details>


### Track/Playlist Path Format

- **Customize File Names**
  - Define how downloaded tracks are named using variables enclosed in `{}`.

- **Available Variables**

   <details open>
   <summary><b>Open Variables Table</b></summary>

   | **Variable**      | **Description**                                     |
   | ----------------- | --------------------------------------------------- |
   | `{artist}`        | Name of the artist(s).                              |
   | `{album}`         | Name of the album.                                  |
   | `{name}`          | Name of the track.                                  |
   | `{rel_year}`      | Release year of the track.                          |
   | `{track_number}`  | Track number on the album.                          |
   | `{disc_number}`   | Disc number (if applicable).                        |
   | `{playlist_name}` | Name of the playlist (if part of a playlist).       |
   | `{genre}`         | Genre of the song.                                  |
   | `{label}`         | Name of the record label.                           |
   | `{explicit}`      | Displays 'Explicit Label' if the song is marked explicit (default: 🅴). |
   | `{spotid}`        | Spotify ID of the track.                            |

   </details>

> [!TIP]
> **Example:**  
> Setting the format to `{artist} - {name}.mp3` will result in files named like `Artist Name - Song Title.mp3`.

### Podcast Path Format

- **Organize by Folders**
  - Define how podcasts are organized into directories using variables.

- **Available Variables**

   <details open>
   <summary><b>Open Variables Table</b></summary>

  | **Variable**      | **Description**                               |
  | ----------------- | --------------------------------------------- |
  | `{artist}`        | Name of the artist(s).                        |
  | `{podcast_name}`  | Name of the Podcast.                          |
  | `{episode_name}`  | Episode name.                                 |
  | `{release_date}`  | Episode release date.                         |
  | `{total_episodes}`| Total number of episodes in podcast.          |
  | `{language}`      | Podcast language.                             |

   </details>

> [!TIP]
> **Example:**  
> Setting the directory format to `{artist}/{podcast_name}/{episode})` will create folders like `Artist Name/Podcast Name/Episode Name.mp3`.


## 6. Saving Your Configuration

- **Apply Changes**
  - After adjusting any settings, click the **Save Settings** button on the right to apply your changes.

> [!IMPORTANT]
> Some configuration changes may require restarting **OnTheSpot** to take effect. Make sure to restart the application if prompted.
